docs: Consul on Nomad overview (#20735)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/nomad/index.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Consul on Nomad
description: >-
  Consul is a service networking solution that you can run with Nomad. Learn more about Consul on Nomad and find documentation specific to the Nomad runtime.
---

# Consul on Nomad

This topic provides an overview of the documentation available for users running Consul with Nomad.

For more information about using Nomad to schedule clusters and applications, refer to the [Nomad documentation](/nomad/docs).

## Introduction

> Nomad is HashiCorp’s workload orchestrator. It enables you to run containers, legacy, and batch applications together on the same infrastructure. Just like a Consul client runs as a system daemon on a worker node, Nomad does the same. You must configure Nomad to access the Consul cluster, and we recommend running a Consul client alongside each Nomad client.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nomad is HashiCorp’s workload orchestrator. It enables you to run containers, legacy, and batch applications together on the same infrastructure. Just like a Consul client runs as a system daemon on a worker node, Nomad is deployed in a the same fashion. In order to use Consul with Nomad, you must configure Nomad to access the Consul cluster. We recommend running a Consul client alongside each Nomad client.
```

> Consul and Nomad operate independently in their deployment and functions, but can integrate to simplify the other’s operations. For example, Nomad job definitions can register services in the Consul catalog and configure sidecar proxies. Furthermore, Nomad registers itself as a service in Consul, which helps Nomad automatically bootstrap itself.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consul and Nomad operate independently in their deployment and functions, but can integrate to simplify the other’s operations. For example, Nomad can register tasks as services in the Consul catalog and configure sidecar proxies. Furthermore, Nomad servers can also registers themselves as a service in Consul, which helps with bootstrapping a Nomad cluster.
```

> Deployments in Nomad can take advantage of Consul service discovery, service mesh, or both. You can leverage Consul DNS and run the Nomad service workloads or start a sidecar process for each service to abstract the networking layer within the service mesh environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deployments in Nomad can take advantage of Consul service discovery, service mesh, or both. You can leverage Consul DNS and run the Nomad service workloads, or start a sidecar process for each service to abstract the networking layer within the service mesh environment.
```

> Consul supports the following functionality for Nomad clients:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nomad supports the following Consul features:
```

- Automatic clustering
- Service discovery
- Service mesh

> - Dynamic configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Key/value store for dynamic application configuration
```

> - ACL access control

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Consul access controls
```

> - Consul namespaces
> - Consul admin partitions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Namespaces
- Admin partitions
```

- Concurrent connections to multiple Consul clusters

## Tutorials

If you are familiar with virtualized workloads in a Linux environment, we recommend you attempt the [Nomad getting started tutorials](/nomad/tutorials/get-started) to get acquainted with the basics of running workloads in Nomad. Then complete the [Consul getting started on VMs tutorials](/consul/tutorials/get-started-vms) to learn how to configure and deploy Consul. Then review the dedicated Consul and Nomad tutorials to understand how both systems interact together.

> To learn more about using Consul and Nomad together, refer to the following tutorials in the Nomad documentation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about using Consul with Nomad, refer to the following tutorials in the Nomad documentation:
```
